The President:
Over the last couple of weeks,
I've been traveling around the
country and talking with folks
about my blueprint for an
economy built to last.
It's a blueprint that focuses
on restoring the things we've
always done best.
Our strengths.
American manufacturing.
American energy.
The skills and education
of American workers.
And most importantly,
American values like fairness
and responsibility.
We know what happened when we
strayed from those values over
the past decade -- especially
when it comes to our
housing market.
Lenders sold loans to families
who couldn't afford them.
Banks packaged those mortgages
up and traded them for
phony profits.
It drove up prices and created
an unsustainable bubble that
burst -- and left millions of
families who did everything
right in a world of hurt.
It was wrong.
The housing crisis has been
the single biggest drag on our
recovery from the recession.
It has kept millions of families
in debt and unable to spend,
and it has left hundreds of
thousands of construction
workers out of a job.
But there's something even
more important at stake.
I've been saying this is a
make-or-break moment for the
middle class.
And the housing crisis struck
right at the heart of what it
means to be middle-class in
this country: owning a home.
Raising our kids.
Building our dreams.
Right now, there are more than
10 million homeowners in this
country who, because of a
decline in home prices that is
no fault of their own, owe more
on their mortgages than their
homes are worth.
It's wrong for anyone to
suggest that the only option for
struggling, responsible
homeowners is to sit and wait
for the housing
market to hit bottom.
I don't accept that.
None of us should.
That's why we launched a plan a
couple years ago that's helped
nearly one million responsible
homeowners refinance their
mortgages and save an
average of $300 on their
payments each month.
I'll be the first to admit
it didn't help as many folks
as we'd hoped.
But that doesn't mean we
shouldn't keep trying.
That's why I'm sending Congress
a plan that will give every
responsible homeowner the
chance to save about $3,000
a year on their mortgages
by refinancing at
historically low rates.
No more red tape.
No more endless forms.
And a small fee on the largest
financial institutions will make
sure it doesn't add a
dime to the deficit.
I want to be clear: this plan
will not help folks who bought a
house they couldn't afford
and then walked away from it.
It won't help folks who bought
multiple houses just to turn
around and sell
them in speculation.
What this plan will do is
help millions of responsible
homeowners who make their
payments every month, but who,
until now, couldn't refinance
because their home values kept
dropping or they got wrapped
up in too much red tape.
Here's the catch.
In order to lower mortgage
payments for millions of
Americans, we need
Congress to act.
They're the ones who
have to pass this plan.
And as anyone who has followed
the news in the last six months
can tell you, getting Congress
to do anything these days is not
an easy job.
That's why I'm going to keep up
the pressure on Congress to do
the right thing.
But I also need your help.
I need your voice.
I need everyone who agrees with
this plan to get on the phone,
send an email,
tweet, pay a visit,
and remind your representatives
in Washington who they work for.
Tell them to pass this plan.
Tell them to help more
families keep their homes,
and more neighborhoods
stay vibrant and whole.
The truth is, it will take
time for our housing market
to recover.
It will take time for our
economy to fully bounce back.
But there are steps we
can take, right now,
to move this country forward.
That's what I promise
to do as your President,
and I hope Members of
Congress will join me.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.